Welcome everyone for the solution and for design of experiments.
Question number three.
So for this question Facebook was testing different designs of the user home page and they've come up
with those 50 variations and they like to test all of them and choose the best.
So how do you set this experiment.
What metrics would you calculate and how would you report the results.
This is different than some of the other questions we've seen because this is not just the simple A-B
test.
We're actually now dealing with 50 variations of something.
So the approach is going to be a little different so I should just mention slightly different than AB
test and there's actually multiple statistical techniques that exist for this sort of problem.
So let's go ahead and discuss some of them.
So there is something known as a t test among pairs of treatment and this is similar to an AB test except
we end up doing is we randomly assigned all 50 versions of this page to users.
And there are a few things to consider with this approach because we're doing a t test among multiple
pairs of treatments not just a single pair for one thing when you're doing this T-test among pairs of
treatment with so many versions you're going to need to make sure you have enough users to get statistically
significant results.
Typically this is actually a really big problem because as you'll see in just a little bit the P-value
you have to use for a T-test among pairs of treatment ends up becoming really small as far as what value
you need to actually get past to achieve statistical significance for really large companies however
with really large user bases.
We're talking things like Facebook and Gmail.
That's actually not an issue which is really convenient because they can run experiments all the time
and in fact Facebook is running thousands of experiments on any time because they have such a huge population
a sample from they can get statistical specifically significant results a lot quicker than other people.
So let's talk about that for a little bit with multiple hypothesis tests.
We end up doing is you increase the likelihood of a rare event occurring.
Meaning you need to adjust your alpha value used to compare your p value against significance accordingly.
So as I previously mentioned you're going to have to adjust that Alpha value which is the one you're
testing your P-value against.
Now this is a multiple an inference problem where you can do in order to correct your alpha value you
can use the Bonferroni correction method.
So let's go ahead and talk about that how that works.
So typically what we end up doing is we say Alpha to zero point zero or five.
And if you ever done any sort of reading on T-test or hypothesis testing that value is going to be really
familiar to you but with the Bonferroni correction we divide this by the number of tests we're actually
performing.
So in our case if we're doing 50 different versions of this test so we're doing a t test among pairs
and 50 of these pairs we're gonna end up doing 0.05 divided by 50.
So that's going to be equal to 0.00 one.
So now that becomes the alpha value that we're going to test or P-value against.
And clearly we're going to need a much larger population for testing.
Otherwise we're just never going to achieve statistical significance for anything with such a small
Alpha value.
So this is why this sort of experimentation really only works when you have very large populations.
And luckily more and more companies are able to have these huge user bases to test this against.